---
title: "My Biggest Regret as a Software Developer"
date: 2020-09-05T16:56:12+02:00
draft: true
---

My biggest regret as a software developer is not been able to learn
English before. English is the *lingua franca* of software development.
I've could work without speaking English because here in Spain a lot of
companies doesn't use English on a daily basis. You are fine while you
can read the documentation and write some function names in English.
That's what I've been doing all my career.

But, when I wanted to progress and change to a company where I could
learn from others, in the technical field and in the personal, I
realized that all of the companies I wanted to work have an
international environment. Consequently, they use English as a language.
I know some companies where all the people are from Spain and when they
have to speak to each other they use Spanish. But, when they have to
write the requirements of a project, a description of an issue they do
it in English.

For this 2020, I planned to go to London with the purpose to learn
English. I wanted to be there a few months without working. Then, once I
would feel comfortable with my communication, search for a job. For
those first months, I wanted to go to museums, try to speak with people
in cafes and do some volunteer work to be surrounded by the language.

If I decided to learn English before, I would have gone to London before
2020. I would have my settlement status and Brexit would not be a
barrier.

My recommendation for those who want to be in the software industry is
that they should learn English before learning a new programming
language. Even, if they don't want to move to another country. The
capacity to communicate in English will bring them a lot of
opportunities.
